---
layout: post
title: "MLH Local Hack Day: Build"
categories: reflection
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<p class="meta">11 Jan 2021 - Michigan</p>

This week I am participating in Major League Hacking's [Local Hack Day: Build](https://localhackday.mlh.io/build). Over the course of these few days, I will be recounting my experiences and daily/weekly challenges here.

## Day 1

**Feedback**

Day 1 was slightly messy, and I think LHD: Build would benefit from having all its resources and action items more consolidated (in one place and one flow), rather than spreading them out from email (joining a guild), website, twitch livestream, and discord (starting off).

The energy from the hosts were great! I also appreciated having time to sleep (week-long vs 48-hour hackathon for example), personal pace (as we are coding from home), and a learning focus for this event (with a multitude and variety of workshops)

**Challenges**

Day 1's challenges are quite nice, because they are pretty introductory and help us setup technologies that we may use later on. For me, setting up the environment is one of the most time-consuming and confusing parts of a new project. I will be looking forward to using them in the following days and after this hack week!

### Build with a Starter Pack: NodeJS

For this daily challenge, I chose NodeJS, because it's pretty popular and I would be able to jumpstart the next challenge with React Native using npm.

There were some troubles with the installation, because I was on Windows, but I just had to additionally install nvm first. Using Github OAuth app was actually super easy. What helped was that I had minimal experience with PostgreSQL.

[Devpost](https://devpost.com/software/nodejs-starter-pack?ref_content=user-portfolio&ref_feature=in_progress)

### Hello World in a New Language: React Native

For this daily challenge, I chose React Native, because I was planning on learning React Native. Though I've technically worked with React Native, it was either a long time ago or I don't have near experience of starting up it.

Overall, it was pretty easy to install Expo on my computer and initiate a React Native project, as I already installed npm from the NodeJS Starter Pack challenge and had Expo on my phone.

My plans are to use this project as a canvas for a possible weekly challenge and create a basic application.

[Devpost](https://devpost.com/software/react-native-hello-world-4xuf6o)

### Update a Personal Site with GitHub Pages

The updates I made include making the site mobile responsive and updating content.

The site on my phone, although much better than before, is not perfect. There is still a slight site vs screen width mismatch and lack of right margins when opened on my phone.

These issues still pose as a challenge: because I forked the website, it's somewhat tricky to figure out what CSS overwrites other CSS. For the time I've spent and the problem's triviality, I do not think it is worth continuing  to pursue this problem

In all honestly, I am satisfied with this website as is for now. With all the version compatibility issues of building this site, when the time comes, I will be looking to creating a new site.

[Devpost](https://devpost.com/software/update-existing-github-pages-site)

## Day 2
Day 2 was pretty nice too. I appreciate the breadth of events that enable exploration. I did encounter a challenge of not resting enough. I spent too much time staring at a screen without taking enough breaks. Tired eyes don't help with coding at all! So I'll be sure to rest my eyes frequently.

Sometimes I find livestream events to be a little difficult to follow along, because it takes different times for the audience to finish the tasks that the host is explaining. Conventional tutorials don't have this issue, because we can go at our own pace. In-person teachings fix this issue with first-hand audience feedback.

### Automating a Daily Task

An idea I had was to send my mom a text whenever I pressed a button for the latest weather details. The inspiration came from whenever my mom asked me for the temperature outside. However, this plan did not go through. The reason is I did not think my mom would appreciate me giving out her phone number to a company that she does not know about, because I would want to use Twillio.

This weekly challenge is reminds me of the python scripts I previously wrote to automate the process of checking for the latest articles from *The Atlantic* and *Scientific American*.

This time, I did something similar, but I used BeautifulSoup4 instead of Selenium. Selenium supports interactions with the site, unnecessary for the task I decided to do, which was web scraping the rankings of a Chinese site for the top latest fiction novels.

### Leverage Sentiment Analysis

This daily challenge was really interesting for me! 

At first, my plan was to use Google's NLP API, but I wasn't in the mood to give out my bank account information. Instead, I followed [this tutorial](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-perform-sentiment-analysis-in-python-3-using-the-natural-language-toolkit-nltk) that used NLTK to perform sentiment analysis on tweets.

I extended the script to analyze a collection of tweets, generate a positive vs negative label for each one, and print out the ratio of positive vs negative tweets of that collection. The tutorial also taught about frequency distribution of tokens of a list of tokens, so I also applied that distribution upon the collection of tweets, which was still dummy data for today.

Read on for my continued efforts on this project tomorrow.

[Devpost](https://devpost.com/software/sentiment-analysis-exploration?ref_content=user-portfolio&ref_feature=in_progress)

## Day 3

Today I spent less time on the event, as I was planning for my major and next semester, tracking mutual funds, and catching up with friends.

I also technically tried out the [Battlesnake](https://docs.battlesnake.com/) daily challenge, but I didn't finish it in time. I don't see anything particularly exceptional with what I had accomplished for this project, so I'll leave it out for today's recounting. I did find it interesting to "level-up" our battlesnakes by programming it to be better.

### Leverage Sentiment Analysis

Today, I integrated my code with the Twitter API. I used the python-twitter wrapper to enable the user to search for tweets of a certain topic. Then, I print out the ratio of positive to negative tweets, along with a frequency distribution of the most common words of those tweets.

I actually haven't confirmed this yet, but theoretically, the tweets used are the latest ones.

One thing I would look for next time is the capability to receive a mixed or neutral label.

Another interesting thing to delve in is analyzing sarcasm. It makes me think about how we learn to understand sarcasm in our developmental stages and the still nuanced determination of sarcasm even as an adult. This situation also applies to learning a new language. If want to learn more regarding this topic, further cognitive psychology classes on languages would be beneficial.

[Devpost](https://devpost.com/software/sentiment-analysis-exploration?ref_content=user-portfolio&ref_feature=in_progress)

## Day 4
### Create a To Do List Application

For this daily challenge, I used the React Native template from Day 1. I referenced quite a few resources, such as [this tutorial](https://github.com/cursorclub/react-native-todo), but tried to customize the application to my preferences. For example, rather than a second button to indicate completion of a todo item, I implemented a line-through the text. Overall, I'm satisfied with the clean look, as sometimes I just want something to note down and cross off things quickly, as opposed to many functionalities or a dense interface.

### Explore a Buzzword Topic

Of the many buzzwords in CS, I chose artificial intelligence, because... it's cool! I decided to use the textbook [Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach](https://www.cin.ufpe.br/~tfl2/artificial-intelligence-modern-approach.9780131038059.25368.pdf), because our university's AI course uses it.

So far, I've gotten through half of the first chapter, while typing out notes in my Gitbook. Usually, the introduction and history portion of a subject is a popular choice of skimming. However, it is refreshing to read, as I've slowly understood the importance of history and context.

I've learned about the different approaches (thought vs behavior and human vs rational) to defining artificial intelligence, as well as the history and context of other disciplines (philosophy, mathematics, psychology, computer engineering, and linguistics) with accomplishments that have contributed to understanding and building intelligent systems.

It's actually been entertaining to read this textbook (5 hours so far!), and I expect myself continuing to do so.
